# MP-AHSA

Background:
Accurate identification of protein complexes in protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks is crucial for understanding the principles of cellular organization. Most computational methods ignore the fact that proteins in a protein complex have a functional similarity as well as they are co-localized and co-expressed at the same place and time, respectively. Meanwhile, the parameters of the current methods are specified by users, so these methods cannot effectively deal with different input PPI networks.
Result:
To address these issues, this study proposes a new method called MP-AHSA to detect protein complexes with multiple properties, and an adaptation harmony search algorithm is developed to optimize the parameters of the MP algorithm. First, a weighted PPI network is constructed using functional annotations, and multiple biological properties and the Markov cluster algorithm (MCL) are used to mine protein complex cores. Then, a fitness function is defined, and a protein complex forming strategy is designed to detect attachment proteins and form protein complexes. Next, a protein complex filtering strategy is formulated to filter out the protein complexes. Finally, an adaptation harmony search algorithm is developed to automatically determine the parameters of the MP algorithm.
Conclusions:
Experimental results show that the proposed MP-AHSA method outperforms 14 state-of-the-art methods for the identification of protein complexes. Also, the functional enrichment analyses reveal that the protein complexes identified by MP-AHSA algorithm have significant biological relevance.
